README.md, before:

# bib-dedupe

<!-- [![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/CoLRev-Ecosystem/bib-dedupe.svg)](https://github.com/CoLRev-Environment/bib-dedupe/releases/) -->
[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)

## Overview

Bib-Dedupe is an open-source **Python library for deduplication of bibliographic records**, tailored for literature reviews.
Unlike traditional deduplication methods, Bib-Dedupe focuses on entity resolution, linking duplicate records instead of simply deleting them.
This approach enables validation, undo operations, and a more nuanced understanding of record relationships.

## Features

- Goal: automated duplicate linking without false positives
- preprocessing approach that mirrors the specific error generation process of academic databases (e.g., re-formatting authors, abbreviating journals)
- **Entity Resolution**: Bib-Dedupe does not simply delete duplicates, but it links duplicates to resolve the entitity and integrates the data. This allows for validation, undo operations, and a more comprehensive understanding of record relationships.
- **Programmatic Access**: Bib-Dedupe is designed for seamless integration into your research workflow, providing programmatic access for easy incorporation into scripts and applications.
- **Transparent and Reproducible Rules**: Bib-Dedupe's blocking and matching rules are transparent and easily reproducible. Researchers can fine-tune these rules based on their specific needs, promoting reproducibility in deduplication processes.
- **Continuous Benchmarking**: Continuous integration tests running on GitHub Actions ensure ongoing benchmarking, maintaining the library's reliability and performance across datasets.
- **Efficient and Parallel Computation**: Bib-Dedupe implements computations efficiently and in parallel, using appropriate data structures and functions for optimal performance.

## Installation

To install Bib-Dedupe, use the following pip command:

```bash
pip install bib-dedupe
```

## Getting Started

```python
import pandas as pd
import bib_dedupe

# Load your bibliographic dataset into a pandas DataFrame
records_df = pd.read_csv("records.csv")

# Get the merged_df
merged_df = bib_dedupe.merge(records_df)

```

For more detailed usage instructions and customization options, refer to the documentation.

For advanced use cases, it is also possible to complete and customize each step individually

```python
# Initialize Bib-Dedupe
deduper = bib_dedupe.BibDeduper()

# Block records
blocked_df = deduper.block(records_df)
# Identify matches
matches = deduper.match(blocked_df)

# Merge
merged_df = deduper.merge(records_df, matches=matches)
```

## Continuous evaluation

Bib-dedupe is continuously evaluated against libraries for duplicate removal in bibliographic datasets.
The notebooks are available for the [evaluation](notebooks/evaluation.ipynb).
The datasets are available in the [data](data) section.
A summary of the evaluation is available in the [README.md](notebooks/README.md), aggregated summaries are exported to [current_results.md](output/current_results.md), and detailed results are exported to a [csv file](output/evaluation.csv):

![Evaluation](output/evaluation_total.png)

## Documentation

Explore the official documentation for comprehensive information on installation, usage, and customization of Bib-Dedupe.

## Citation

If you use Bib-Dedupe in your research, please cite it as follows:

TODO

## Contribution Guidelines

We welcome contributions from the community to enhance and expand Bib-Dedupe. If you would like to contribute, please follow our contribution guidelines.

## License

Bib-Dedupe is released under the MIT License, allowing free and open use and modification.

## Contact

For any questions, issues, or feedback, please open an issue on our GitHub repository.

Happy deduplicating with Bib-Dedupe!

Commit message:

switch from origin to ID

README.md, after:

# bib-dedupe

<!-- [![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/CoLRev-Ecosystem/bib-dedupe.svg)](https://github.com/CoLRev-Environment/bib-dedupe/releases/) -->
[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)

## Overview

Bib-Dedupe is an open-source **Python library for deduplication of bibliographic records**, tailored for literature reviews.
Unlike traditional deduplication methods, Bib-Dedupe focuses on entity resolution, linking duplicate records instead of simply deleting them.
This approach enables validation, undo operations, and a more nuanced understanding of record relationships.

## Features

- Goal: automated duplicate linking without false positives
- preprocessing approach that mirrors the specific error generation process of academic databases (e.g., re-formatting authors, abbreviating journals)
- **Entity Resolution**: Bib-Dedupe does not simply delete duplicates, but it links duplicates to resolve the entitity and integrates the data. This allows for validation, undo operations, and a more comprehensive understanding of record relationships.
- **Programmatic Access**: Bib-Dedupe is designed for seamless integration into your research workflow, providing programmatic access for easy incorporation into scripts and applications.
- **Transparent and Reproducible Rules**: Bib-Dedupe's blocking and matching rules are transparent and easily reproducible. Researchers can fine-tune these rules based on their specific needs, promoting reproducibility in deduplication processes.
- **Continuous Benchmarking**: Continuous integration tests running on GitHub Actions ensure ongoing benchmarking, maintaining the library's reliability and performance across datasets.
- **Efficient and Parallel Computation**: Bib-Dedupe implements computations efficiently and in parallel, using appropriate data structures and functions for optimal performance.

## Installation

To install Bib-Dedupe, use the following pip command:

```bash
pip install bib-dedupe
```

## Getting Started

```python
import pandas as pd
import bib_dedupe

# Load your bibliographic dataset into a pandas DataFrame
records_df = pd.read_csv("records.csv")

# Get the merged_df
merged_df = bib_dedupe.merge(records_df)

```

For more detailed usage instructions and customization options, refer to the documentation.

For advanced use cases, it is also possible to complete and customize each step individually

```python
# Initialize Bib-Dedupe
deduper = bib_dedupe.BibDeduper()

# Block records
blocked_df = deduper.block(records_df)
# Identify matches
matches = deduper.match(blocked_df)

# Merge
merged_df = deduper.merge(records_df, matches=matches)
```

## Continuous evaluation

Bib-dedupe is continuously evaluated against other Python libraries (currently the [asreview datatools](https://github.com/asreview/asreview-datatools)) for duplicate removal in bibliographic datasets.
Complementary data from Hair et al. (2021) is added to the overview.
The notebooks are available for the [evaluation](notebooks/evaluation.ipynb), and the datasets are available in the [data](data) section.
A summary of the evaluation is available in the [README.md](notebooks/README.md), aggregated summaries are exported to [current_results.md](output/current_results.md), and detailed results are exported to a [csv file](output/evaluation.csv).

![Evaluation](output/evaluation_total.png)

## Documentation

Explore the official documentation for comprehensive information on installation, usage, and customization of Bib-Dedupe.

## Citation

If you use Bib-Dedupe in your research, please cite it as follows:

TODO

## Contribution Guidelines

We welcome contributions from the community to enhance and expand Bib-Dedupe. If you would like to contribute, please follow our contribution guidelines.

## License

Bib-Dedupe is released under the MIT License, allowing free and open use and modification.

## Contact

For any questions, issues, or feedback, please open an issue on our GitHub repository.

Happy deduplicating with Bib-Dedupe!
